Why does God allow suffering?
Jehovah God didn’t intend
for humans to suffer.
On the contrary,
he gave the first human couple
a wonderful start.
But Satan, a rebel angel,
called God a liar
and influenced the first humans
to reject God’s authority.
When Adam and Eve disobeyed God,
they chose to follow Satan.
They rebelled against Jehovah
and decided for themselves
what was right and wrong.
Was Satan correct?
Could humans rule themselves successfully
without help from God?
Time would be needed to settle
the crucial issues raised by the rebels.
To illustrate:
A rebellious student claims
that the teacher’s method of instruction
is wrong.
He insists that he knows a much better way.
Some students think that he is right,
and they also become rebellious.
What should the teacher do?
He has the authority
to reprimand the rebellious students.
But what effect would that choice have
on the other students?
They may lose respect for the teacher,
thinking that he is afraid
of being proved wrong.
But suppose the teacher allows
the student to show the class his  method.
Then it would be proved to all present
who is qualified to teach.
Jehovah has done something similar
to what the teacher does.
When Satan challenged Jehovah,
millions of angels were watching.
How Jehovah handled the rebellion
would greatly affect all those angels
and eventually all intelligent creation.
Knowing this, Jehovah allowed Satan
to rule this world for a time.
Satan’s rule has caused
untold pain and suffering.
However,
once Jehovah’s right and ability to rule
is established beyond any doubt,
Jehovah will undo
all the damage caused by Satan’s rebellion.
At that time,
only people who choose
to follow God’s standards
will inhabit the earth.
Until then,
how can you cope with suffering?
Where can you find comfort?
To learn more about what the Bible says
on this and many other topics,
go to jw.org.